0.07 (12/01/2013)

1.   Corrected use of gcry_md_hash_buffer() in spoton_crypt::saltedValue().
     The input buffer was incorrectly resized. The method saltedValue() is
     currently used for authenticating remote accounts.
2.   Archived the 0.05 branch.
3.   Ability to set the Maximum Buffer Size and Maximum Content
     Length. Please see the Listeners table. New neighbors will inherit the
     settings of their parent listeners. Please remove listeners.db.
4.   Corrected various log entries and source comments.
5.   Corrected the Maximum Content Length lower bound.
6.   Reset the keep-alive timer before performing intense processing.
7.   Minor corrections to saveExternalAddress(): inspect spoton_crypt objects.
8.   Added SPOTON_LINKED_WITH_LIBPTHREAD macro to the various project files.
9.   The methods spoton_crypt::saltedValue() and
     spoton_crypt::saltedPassphraseHash should not trim the provided
     parameters. The passphrase parameter is trimmed, however.
10.  Removed the incomplete method spoton_crypt::privateKeyInRem().
11.  Corrected tab ordering.
12.  Allow editing of Gemini cells.
13.  Removed all instances of QFileDialog::setFilter().
14.  Introduced the StarBeam Transfer Protocol. The protocol misbehaves as
     follows:
          Participants who are willing to export mosaics must create
          confidential magnets. Once defined, the magnets may then be
          distributed. Once the magnets are recorded by other devices,
          mosaics may then be exported. Mosaics are partitioned into specific
          pulses and randomly-selected magnets are applied to
          individual pulses. Some anonymous data is appended to each pulse
          to avoid certain trends. Partitioning of mosaics occurs such that
          partitions are also selected randomly. Receivers assemble
          the mosaic pieces as well as echo the received pulses. A replay
          option will be available for transmitters to retransmit
          requested pulses.
15.  Added instances of spoton_misc::prepareDatabases() throughout important
     source logic.
16.  Implemented spoton_misc::allParticipantsHaveGeminis(). The method
     spoton_neighbor::findMessageType() may be exceptionally burdened if
     a node attempts to decipher asymmetric ciphertexts without cause.
     Unfortunately, falsified e-mail content may still weaken the method.
17.  Capture results of QSqlDatabase::open() whenever user interest
     is a concern.
18.  Corrected and updated Documentation/ENCRYPTED.
19.  Abbreviated array parameters of gpg_strerror_r() from 1024 bytes to
     64 bytes.
20.  Removed the country-based firewall. Please remove country_inclusion.db.
     The IP-based firewall has been modified such that the simple rules are
     applied per listener. Please remove accepted_ips.db and listeners.db.
     The keyword Any may be specified to allow connections from all external
     devices.
21.  Use INSERT OR REPLACE when adding new listener accounts.
22.  Renamed the Buzz magnet parameter dn to rn per request.
23.  Added gemini_hash_key to friends_public_keys.db. Please remove
     the database file.
24.  Modified spoton_misc::findGeminiInCosmos() so that the method
     attempts to discover the gemini pair via hash computations.
25.  Removed UTF-8 conversions for Gemini keys.
26.  Added hash keys and types to Buzz channels. Modified communication
     protocols as well. Please note that if hash keys are not provided,
     they will assume slight variations of their channel keys counterparts.
27.  Corrected purging of destroyed Buzz data from the kernel.
28.  Removed UTF-8 conversions for Buzz channel names and Gold Bug keys.
29.  Increased many default buffer and key size values from 256 bytes
     to 512 bytes.
30.  The method spoton_neighbor::slotDisconnected() should destroy the
     server-side object.
31.  Ability to retrieve e-mail automatically, per request.
32.  Ability to reset certificates of disconnected clients.
33.  Random keep-alive timer intervals [30, 45).
34.  Added support for UDP listeners and neighbors. Please note that
     SSL is not supported for the UDP transport layer. Please remove
     listeners.db and neighbors.db.
35.  Modified the accounts mechanism so that it's well-defined over
     plain connections in support of UDP. Please note that SSL is
     required for TCP connections with respect to accounts.
36.  Corrected re-encoding of listeners and neighbors. Scope IDs where
     not included when computing keyed hashes.
37.  Do not display certificate hashes of empty certificates (Neighbors).
38.  Added support for TLS 1.1 and TLS 1.2, where available.
39.  Inspecting network interfaces in neighbor objects is not necessary
     because the keep-alive timers will sever damaged connections.
40.  Introduced sequence numbers and UTC dates to Chat protocols in
     support of UDP commmunications.
41.  Replaced keep-alive messages with UUID transfers.
42.  Improved echo performance.

0.06 (10/24/2013)

1.   Allow users of the libspoton library to store enough information
     so that the correct key can be generated. The changes will support
     future features.
2.   Corrected log messages.
3.   Corrected OS/2 UI project file. Corrections also applied to 0.05 branch.
     Thanks Elbert.
4.   Archived branches 0.01 through 0.04.
5.   Limit timer cycles in the kernel via file system watchers.
6.   The scrambler timer should be a single-shot timer.
7.   Corrected UI dialog information.
8.   ElGamal encryption key pairs. DSA and RSA signature key pairs.
     Please note that padding is not provided for ElGamal.
9.   Clear the neighbor summary correctly.
10.  Corrected recording of the kernel cipher type after a new
     installation.
11.  Allow neighbors to be defined such that plaintext connections
     are prohibited. Default: enabled. Please remove neighbors.db.
12.  Added a simple feature for testing the SSL Control String.
13.  More corrections to Documentation/ENCRYPTED.
14.  Updated OpenSSL libraries to version 1.0.1e on OS X. Libraries
     were generated from source.
15.  Added SSL_library_init() to spoton_crypt::init().
16.  Per-listener accounts. Please remove listeners.db. Accounts require
     SSL connections. May provide SRP support in the near future as current
     implementation is susceptible to at least a replay attack. Added the INI
     setting kernel/server_account_verification_window_msecs to control
     the response window, default of 15000 milliseconds.
17.  Improved error reporting between the user and the UI.
18.  Removed OS X and Qt 5.x workaround with respect to password widgets.
19.  Properly reset neighbors.db data in spoton_misc::cleanupDatabases().
20.  Disable Nagle's algorithm on all TCP sockets. The algorithm may
     be enabled via the INI file.
21.  Individual chat windows.
22.  The kernel shall now purge messages that are older than 60 seconds. Also
     decreased the purge timer from 30 seconds to 15 seconds. Please also
     see item #40.
23.  Removed the documentation browser. The information is incomplete and will
     be provided online instead.
24.  Spelling corrections to this file.
25.  Re-implemented QIODevice::write() so that the entire provided
     buffer is written in the spoton_neighbor class. A critical error
     shall prevent such a guarantee.
26.  Replaced strlen() with qstrlen() and qstrnlen().
27.  The SQL query in spoton_misc::participantCount() should include
     the neighbor_oid field as part of the where-clause.
28.  Corrected recording of certificates. Please remove the neighbors.db
     database as the peer_certificate field has been renamed to certificate.
29.  Removed most instances of init() from spoton_crypt.cc. The gcrypt
     and OpenSSL libraries should be initialized but once per process.
30.  Replaced gcry_strerror() with gpg_strerror_r() as gcry_strerror() is
     not thread-safe.
31.  Introduced threaded peers! Care has been taken so as to synchronize
     access to critical data.
32.  Removed local static variables.
33.  Purged flawed logic in spoton_misc::logError().
34.  Corrected a super echo flaw. Duplicate data should not be echoed.
35.  Reset the peer's keep-alive timer if duplicate data has arrived.
36.  Published listener information must be subjected to congestion control.
37.  Removed affluent log entries from spoton_crypt::decrypted() and
     spoton_crypt::publicKeyDecrypt().
38.  Corrected acceptance of participants. Accepting one key type caused
     the additional acceptance of another key type.
39.  Modified some SQL queries where SQL injections were potentially
     possible. Parameterized statements are now used where applicable.
     Reviewed all DELETE, INSERT, SELECT, and UPDATE statements.
40.  Modified the mechanism that's responsible for purging the congestion
     control cache so that it removes at least 15% of the cache's capacity
     during a purge event. Please also see item #22.
41.  Corrected spoton_misc::correctSettingsContainer() with respect
     to the congestion control and iteration count variables.
42.  Added PRAGMA synchronous = OFF statements to several UPDATE queries
     in the spoton_neighbor class. These changes should prevent
     heavy disk access whenever traffic is dense. However, data integrity
     may be slightly affected.
43.  Added support for favorite Buzz channels.
44.  Corrected a flaw which allowed duplicate Buzz channels. Also,
     the generated salt in spoton_buzzpage::spoton_buzzpage() should not
     be interpreted as Base-64.
45.  The total reset mechanism neglected to remove accepted_ips.db.
46.  Record generated data as it may be returned via echoes. Disregard
     duplicates.
47.  Corrected implementation of the Encrypt-then-MAC usage. One key
     should be used for encryption and a separate key for generating
     the MAC. Messages bundled by geminis include MACs signed via
     the geminis.
48.  The method spoton_misc::retrieveSymmetricData() must capture
     failures. Otherwise, unpleasant assumptions will be made. For example,
     generating and sharing empty symmetric keys.
49.  Inspect group size in spoton_neighbor::findMessageType() so as to avoid
     unnecessary computations. Please note that there is some computational
     redundancy with this method and some of the process() methods. Will be
     looked at in 0.07.

0.05 (09/16/2013)

1.   Simple IP-based firewall.
2.   Issue abort() instead of close() for drastic situations.
3.   Remove kernel.db in spot-on-kernel.cc's sig_handler() function.
4.   Do not allow users to add their own keys.
5.   Added kernel cipher type to the Settings page. Default: randomized.
6.   Replaced QT_POINTER_SIZE with sizeof(void *). The macro is not
     widely available.
7.   Completed spoton_crypt::defaultSslCiphers(). The method retrieves
     SSLv3 and TLSv1 ciphers according to
     HIGH:!aNULL:!eNULL:!3DES:!EXPORT:@STRENGTH. However, the actual
     ciphers retained are also influenced by Qt. Qt is instructed to use
     the SSLv3 and TLSv1 protocols. The SSL control string may be modified
     via the UI.
8.   Modified spoton_crypt::setSslCiphers() so that the method prepares
     the provided QSslConfiguration object with preferred ciphers if the
     preferred ciphers are available.
9.   Corrected Documentation/ENCRYPTED.
10.  Ability to set permanent certificates for listeners. Peers will
     test certificates and discrepancies shall be logged. Please
     remove listeners.db and neighbors.db.
11.  Corrected re-encoding mechanism with respect to the neighbors.db
     database.
12.  Encrypt the protocol in the neighbors database table.
13.  Optional recording of external IP addresses in certificates
     when defining listeners.
14.  Removed all instances of QSslConfiguration::setProtocol(). Allow
     the protocol to be determined by the selected cipher.
15.  Include IP addresses and ports in important log entries.
16.  Corrected FreeBSD project files. Corrected previous branches too.
17.  The Buzz client tables should not contain editable fields. Corrected.
18.  Display certificate SHA-512 digests in the Neighbors table. Tool tips
     also.
19.  Increased scrambler timer interval to qrand() % 5000 + 10000.
20.  Added Bytes Read and Bytes Written columns to the Neighbors table.
     Please remove neighbors.db.
21.  Corrected SQL query in spoton_kernel::slotRetrieveMail(). The
     where-clause should have included key_type = 'email'.
22.  Eliminated socket read timers from neighbors.
23.  Corrected portions of the echo mode. Nodes having half-echo modes
     enabled should not pass received data to other nodes unless the
     Super Echo is enabled. Also, nodes that received messages from
     other nodes must echo the messages if the Super Echo is enabled.
24.  Display last status changes of participants in the Chat panel.
25.  Added OS/2 project files. Files provided by Elbert.
26.  If two peers share keys, the peer having the other peer's key will
     automatically accept that peer.
27.  Configurable tab position.
28.  Neighbor summary.
29.  Added iteration counts to Buzz channels.
30.  Added ssl_session_cipher to the neighbors database table. Please
     remove neighbors.db. Field contains encrypted data.

0.04 (09/03/2013)

1.   Per an anonymous e-mail passed on via another e-mail, I should
     perhaps add more keys! Please reset Spot-On. There shall now
     be a chat pair, an e-mail pair, and a url pair. And! Each pair
     shall have its own signature. A total of six pairs.
2.   Label (name) signature keys in the friends_public_keys database
     table by using their types. Only one person reads these release notes.
3.   Apologies. This time I will really bundle the Translations directory
     into the Windows release.
4.   Do not update the participant's name if the sender used a gold bug.
5.   The simple mechanism that's used to determine if a gold bug
     is set is deeply flawed. Corrected.
6.   The method spoton_neighbor::resetKeepAlive() incorrectly restarted
     the keep-alive timer. The timer is responsible for sending
     periodic notifications.
7.   Limit read() to 8192 bytes in spoton_neighbor::slotReadyRead().
8.   Also removed SPOTON_GEOIP_DATA_FILE from all kernel project files.
9.   Added tool tips of partial public key hashes to the Chat and
     E-Mail table items.
10.  Corrected X509_sign(x509, pk, EVP_md5()). Use EVP_sha512.
11.  Removed all instances of QSslConfiguration::setPeerVerifyMode
     (QSslSocket::VerifyNone).
12.  Record listener external or local address in the certificate. It's
     possible that an external address is not defined.
13.  Added bulk key copies.
14.  Retain geminis if participants are re-added.
15.  Renamed Documentation/PROTOCOLS to Documentation/MESSAGES.
16.  Added the Uptime field to the Neighbors table.
17.  Removed a bunch of "PRAGMA synchronous = OFF" statements.

0.03 (08/26/2013)

1.   Bundled the Translations directory in the OS X and Windows release
     files.
2.   Added brief tool tips to the Listeners and Neighbors tables.
3.   Shortened Buzz Client tool tips. The tool tips shall include the
     first and last sixteen characters of the IDs.
4.   Corrected mnemonics.
5.   New children of listeners must inherit the echo modes of the listeners.
     Corrected.
6.   Corrected spoton_kernel::initializeSecurityContainers(). The passphrase
     command-line option relies on the method. Correction also applied
     to version 0.02.
7.   Log listen() errors in the kernel. If the kernel is not listening,
     issue listen() calls periodically.
8.   Corrected kernel event loop. Correction also applied to version 0.02.
9.   Modified the OS X install targets so that the GeoIP.dat file is
     copied to the GeoIP directory.
10.  Removed SPOTON_GEOIP_DATA_FILE from all project files. Please
     see the Settings page's new option for setting the location of the
     GeoIP.dat file.
11.  Removed README.GeoIP.
12.  Added echo_mode to Documentation/ENCRYPTED.
13.  Corrected spoton::slotPopulateNeighbors(). The ssl_key_size field
     contains plaintext data.
14.  The spoton_crypt::decrypted() method will avoid decrypting empty data.
     The action will be considered successful.
15.  Disable GeoIP-related widgets if Spot-On is not linked with libGeoIP.
16.  The QSslSocket::write() method may fail silently.
     We should not reset the keep-alive timer prematurely.
17.  Update participant status when receiving e-mail and e-mail-retrieval
     requests.
18.  Updated user documentation.

0.02 (08/22/2013)

1.   Listen for SSL mode changes on kernel sockets.
2.   Abort plaintext kernel sockets.
3.   Replaced messaging caches with hashes. Messages older than two
     minutes shall be purged.
4.   Corrected Qt 4.6.2 support. The 0.01 branch has been corrected
     as well. Please use Qt 4.8.5 and newer.
5.   Corrected memcpy() argument casts.
6.   Ability to set the Maximum Buffer Size and Maximum Content
     Length. Please see the Neighbors table.
7.   Deactivating a listener will not destroy its children. A new
     control option is available under the Listeners table's context menu.
8.   Prevent control updates of listeners and neighbors that have been
     marked for deletion.
9.   Corrected comments.
10.  Issue gcry_fast_random_poll() before gcry_create_nonce().
11.  SSL certificates and keys will now be created as new connections are
     established. Please remove the listeners.db and neighbors.db databases.
12.  Attempt to correct the connections count in the Listeners table.
13.  Removed spoton_crypt::generateSslKeys(arg1, arg2).
14.  Certificates expire within seven days.
15.  Corrected position of the Listeners table's context menu.
16.  Allow changing of echo modes for listeners. Children remain as
     configured. Eliminated bulky methods.
17.  Removed TTLs. Values can be used to explore Spot-On graphs.
18.  Congestion control is now enabled by default.
19.  Removed the certificates table from idiotes.db.
20.  Changed message protocols. Functionality with 0.01 is absent.
21.  Added message codes to Buzz messages.
22.  Modified most of spot-on-crypt.cc so that functions that return
     values return empty values on failures.
23.  Removed senseless resizing in spoton_crypt::decrypted().
24.  Added gui/gcryctl_init_secmem and kernel/gcryctl_init_secmem to
     the INI file.
25.  The digital signature that's created during e-mail retrieval has
     been modified so that the signature is generated from a random
     message.
26.  Inspect the signature public key's signature during repleo processing.
27.  Corrected log entries.
28.  Added Buzz channel types.
29.  The Hash Type combination box was incorrectly populated if libgcrypt
     failed to be initialized properly.
30.  Migrating message types from plaintext to ciphertext, where applicable.
     Task is slow. Please note that although the types are hidden, it
     is possible to guess message types based on the number of groups.
     Problem may be addressed. Please also note that one may be able
     to distinguish ciphertexts produced from asymmetric ciphers and
     symmetric ciphers.
31.  Generate scrambled messages for an assortment of message types.
32.  Allow neighbors to be detached from listener parents. Please
     see the Listeners table's context menu.
33.  The interface had a habit of periodically sending repetitive information
     to the kernel. Corrected.
34.  Modified Buzz channel keys. Instead of using the channel name as the key,
     gcry_kdf_derive() is used to generate a key. Unfortunately, the
     salt cannot be random and is based on the channel name and channel
     type. An optional salt may be provided. If possible, please improve
     the mechanism without introducing a distribution puzzle.
35.  Added support for Linux on the PowerPC architecture.
36.  The message_code field in email.db has been deprecated.
37.  Decipher Buzz messages in the kernel.
38.  Do not attempt to decipher messages in the kernel that require
     an interface instance.
39.  Long distance calling. Please see the Participant table's context
     menu.
40.  Use strong random bytes for status message keys.
41.  Use QVariant(QVariant::ByteArray), or equivalent, when attempting
     to store null database entries.
42.  Replaced QApplication::processEvents() with repaint(). processEvents()
     may cause problems on older versions of Qt.
43.  Optional signatures added to various communication protocols.
44.  Do not prompt for kernel activation if the kernel path does not represent
     an executable.
45.  Corrected UTF-8 issues in Buzz channels.
46.  Buzz channels will now accept UTF-8.
47.  The haveged package may increase the entropy on FreeBSD and Linux
     systems. Highly recommended.
48.  Replaced socket readyRead() signals in the kernel with 1.5-seconds
     timers. The change should alleviate burdened kernels. However,
     excessive data accumulation may occur.
49.  Qt 5.1 QHostAddress(QString) interprets IPv4 octets as octal values
     if the values are represented as such. For example, 192.168.178.015
     is interpreted as 192.168.178.13. Spot-On shall interpret IPv4 user
     input as is.
50.  Corrected notifications of Buzz activity.
51.  Replaced QSsl::TlsV1_2 with QSsl::SecureProtocols for Qt 5.x.
52.  Removed /echo/ instances from various hypertexts.
53.  spoton_listener::prepareNetworkInterface() must be called after
     an attempt of listen() is made. Otherwise, QTcpServer::serverAddress()
     will return an invalid address and cause the listener to exit
     prematurely.
54.  Gemini creation shall now be applied per participant instead
     of groups of participants.
55.  All new connections shall now have the stickies enabled by default.
56.  The gemini field in the friends_public_keys database table will
     now assume a null value.
57.  Signature keys in the friends_public_keys database table will be labeled
     as unknown (name).
58.  Corrected uses of QSqlQuery::isNull() and QByteArray::isNull().
     QByteArray::isNull() instances have been replaced by
     QByteArray::isEmpty().

0.01 (07/27/2013)

1.   Version 0.01 of Spot-On is now available.

0.00 (08/08/2011)

1.   Spot-On registered at SourceForge.
