Completed Items

1.     Inform the kernel of the key.
2.     Add colors to the kernel widgets. On Windows platforms,
       the kernel path must represent a readable program. On other platforms,
       the path must represent an executable program.
3.     If the passphrase is not set, disable all other tabs. Also
       disable the kernel and listeners group boxes.
4.     Sticky needs a tooltip describing the feature.
5.     Add a check box to hide all disconnected neighbors. This was
       completed, however, it was removed on 06/03/2013. The option
       may cause confusion when a new neighbor is defined if a uniqueness
       error arises. Similar confusion may arise for listeners.
6.     Improve the IP input masks. Removed the underscores so that the
       spacebar may be used. Attached returnPressed() signals to
       listener and neighbor IP widgets.
7.     When the RSA key generation is finished, a confirmation should
       be displayed.
8.     The context menu to share the public key should be a button.
9.     Add an icon to a connected neighbor.
10.    libspoton.dll needs to be installed in the executable's path.
11.    Add presence information to the Participants table.
12.    Provide a means of sending a message to friends only.
13.    Add UUIDs to neighbors. 
14.    Display additional information pertaining to network information in
       the Neighbors table.
15.    Re-encode various databases whenever the passphrase is changed.
16.    Offline e-mail.
17.    Qt 4.6.3 support.
18.    Use QSslSockets.
19.    Inspect toInt() results.
20.    Encrypt the uuid field in the neighbors.db database.

Remaining Items

1.     Secure connections between the interfaces and the kernel.
2.     Inspect UTF-8 uses.
3.     Introduce DSA and ElGamal?
4.     Echo proxy?
5.     Prioritize keep-alive messages.
6.     Use super-secure memory?
7.     Allow for other ciphers besides AES for e-mail.
8.     Can we establish session keys on the Echo?
9.     E-mail retrieval may fail if a node is disconnected because of
       a lifetime expiration.
10.    The re-encoding phase may produce errors. Delete entries as
       necessary.

Ideas
       Add a database for the temporary chat keys of connected neighbors.

       Settings tab needs a side splitter for more settings such as: deny-get,
       deny-put.

       Fetching of new neighbors needs to be automated.

       Automatic fetching needs a checkbox.

       Add one listener before the kernel can be activated?

       When listeners are only used as servers, add the name of the IRC
       channel. Listeners are always servers.

       Messages from channel nodes need to mirror all incoming messages to all
       connected neighbors with an UUID for that channel.

       Neighbors need names.

       Be sure that the sticky of a neighbor is not the IP but the
       UUID. DHT.

       Search requires three radio buttons for file, hash, and URL.

       Provide a means of filtering messages for the channel concept.

       The Participants table needs to contain friends and connected
       neighbors.

       Provide a means of filtering messages in chat.

       Spot-On as a plugin.

       Do not hide the OID column? The OID is always available. It is
       an internal database field.

       TTLs for channels.

       The kernel's server port is not standard. It's fine.

       Adding new neighbors creates new local ports. As defined.

       May need GET and PUT messages and denial of those.

       WebKit to retrieve a Web site, convert it to ascii and post as
       e-mail.

       Micro blog with f2f turtle hopping with new UUID.

       Check box column in the Participants table to broadcast
       own IP information to friends.

       Check box in Neighbors tab to connect only to friends.
       Other: hybrid f2f and p2p.

       Settings tab: option to override my external IP and port?
